1)What is SOQL ? Differnece between SQL and SOQL?
   SOQL stands for Saleforce object query Language .It is used to retrieve the data from Salesforce Database.
   SQL is a programming language that's used to query and manage data in a database,while SOQL is a language used specifically to query data from Salesforce.
    SQL allows  all modifying statements like UPDATE, INSERT but SOQL it does not allow data modifying statements like UPDATE, INSERT.



2)  what is limit of SOQL in Salesforce and how you can overcome it?
     Using SOQL we can retrieve maximum 50,000  record per transaction.
     To overcome this:
     we use pagination with OFFSET and LIMIT clauses,which allows retrieval of data in smaller chunks.
     By using Batch Apex which processes large data sets asynchronously by breaking them into manageable batches.

3)  What is salesforce workbench ?? and what's the feautre of workbench and why it is used?
    Salesforce Workbench is a free, web-based tool that helps users interact with Salesforce databases.
    It is used for 
    a) Data management: It is used to  Import and export data, perform bulk record updates, and mass creation and deletion ( CSv or xml ,List ,Matrix) 
    b) Rest API operation: It is used to perform all API menthod ( Get ,post ,put patch(for editing and updating the record through rest api), delete)
    c) Queries : For SOSL and SOQL search it's used.
    d) Migration:To deploy and retirieve metadata
    e) Password management

4) write a SOQL query to fetch all the account from account object 
    Select name from  account

5) write a SOQL query to fetch the id and email fields of all the contact from the contact object.
    Select id ,email  from  contact

6)  write a SOQL query to fetch Name and billing city of all the acconuts  where billing city is newyork.
    Select Name ,Billing City  from  account where  Billingcity='New York'

7) write a SOQL query to fetch all the contacts where last name starts with "S";
    Select lastname  from contact where lastname LIKE 'S%'

8) write a SOQL query to fetch the name and type of all accounts where the type is not null.
   select name , type from account where type =! null

9) write a SOQL query to fetch the name and id of all the opportunities that are in the "Prospecting" stage.
   select name , id, stage  from opportunity where stage='Prospecting'

10) write a SOQL query to fetch the account id and ammount of all opportunities where amount greater than 50000.
    select accountid ,name ,amount from opportunity where amount >50000

11) write a SOQL query to fetch the name of all contacts whose email contains the domain gmail.com
    select lastname , email from contact where email LIKE '%gmail.com'

12)  write a SOQL query to fetch the name and phone of all accounts where the phone number is not null.
       select name , phone from account where phone =! null

13) write a SOQL query to fetch the id and closedate of all opportunities that are closing in next 30 days.
     select id , closedate from opportunity where closedate=Next_N_Days:30

14) write a SOQL query to fetch the name and accountid of all contacts who are associated with an account.
     select lastname , accountid from contact where accountid != null

15) write a SOQL query to fetch the id and email of contacts where the email field is not blank.
    select id , email from contact where email != null

16) write a SOQL query to fetch the id and name of all opportunities that have been closed.
     Select id, name form opportunity where stagename='Closed Lost' OR 'Closed Won'

17)  write a SOQL query to fetch the name and createddate of all the accounts that were created in the last 7 days.
     Select name , createddate from account where createddate=Last_N_DAYS:7

18) write a  SOQL query to fetch the id and name of all contacts that are associated with accounts in the "Technology" Industry.(Parent and child relationship(account and contact))
     select id , name from contacts where Accoount.industry='Technology'

19) write a  SOQL query to fetch the name and phone of all accounts where phone starts with the area code "123"
    Select name ,phone from account where phone LIKE '123%'

20) write a  SOQL query to fetch the id and closeddate of all opportunities that have closeddate in the past.
    select id , Name, closeddate from opportunity where Closeddate < TODAY

21) write a  SOQL query to fetch the name of all accounts that were created before Januray 1,2025.
    select name from account where createddate < 2025-01-01T00:00:00Z

22) 


    
 































   


    














     
     











